*stardust.txt*  Stars around your text

Stardust requires Neovim 0.10 or newer.                     *stardust*

SETUP                                                     *stardust-setup*
>lua
  vim.opt.runtimepath:prepend(vim.fn.expand('~/Repos/Stardust'))
  require('stardust').setup({ fps = 60, stars = 3, ships = 6 })
<
setup() starts the animation. Calling it again applies new options.
Enable termguicolors for the foreground brightness ramps.

OPTIONS                                                   *stardust-options*

Every category is an integer level from 0 to 10. Level 0 turns the category
off, including its preview command.

  fps       Target updates per second, 1-120. Default: 60.
  floating_windows
            Also animate floating windows. Default: false.
  stars     Density, 0-10. Default: 3. About one star per 100 empty cells
            at level 3 and one per 30 at level 10, capped at 200 per scene.
  meteors   Lone shooting stars, 0-10. Default: 7.
  showers   Meteor showers of 24-48 meteors, 0-10. Default: 3.
  moons     Moons that wax and wane, 0-10. Default: 5.
  planets   Planets with a spinning ring, 0-10. Default: 5.
  orbits    Planets with a moon circling them, 0-10. Default: 4.
  pulsars   Flashing stars, 0-10. Default: 4.
  nebulas   Faint shimmering clouds, 0-10. Default: 3.
  supernovas
            Brief expanding bursts, 0-10. Default: 2.
  comets    Comets, 0-10. Default: 6.
  satellites
            Slow crossings with a blinking beacon, 0-10. Default: 4.
  ufos      Bobbing saucers with alternating lights, 0-10. Default: 3.
  ships     Ship flybys, 0-10. Default: 6.
  battles   Share of ship flybys that become a chase, 0-10. Default: 3,
            about 30%. Level 10 turns every automatic flyby into a chase.
  colors    Foreground overrides: stars (list of 1-8 #RRGGBB colors) and
            one color each for meteors and every object kind above.
  fleet     List of 1-16 ships with right and left artwork: a string or
            1-4 rows, at most 16 single-cell characters wide. Spaces are
            transparent. Each ship can also have its own color. A custom
            fleet replaces the built-in one.

Frequency levels (meteors, showers, and every object kind) average about once
an hour at level 1 and double with each level: level 5 is about every four
minutes, level 7 about every minute, and level 10 about every seven seconds.
Waits vary between half and one and a half times the average. Every kind
keeps its own timer, so several objects can share the view; a kind that finds
no room tries again at its next due time.

All options are optional. See README.md for color and fleet examples. There
is no autostart option; setup() starts the sky. Put -- stylua: ignore above
the fleet field to preserve the artwork's row layout when formatting.

Object kinds are defined in lua/stardust/objects.lua. Each entry names the
kind, its option and color key, default level, motion, and artwork: a sprite
or a list of frames, with optional per-cell brightness and phase for a spin
period, and a bob period for moving kinds. Adding an entry adds its option,
color, preview command, and spawn timer.

COMMANDS                                                  *:Stardust*

  :Stardust              Toggle the sky.
  :Stardust start        Start the sky.
  :Stardust stop         Stop and remove all decorations.
  :Stardust meteor       Preview a shooting star.
  :Stardust shower       Preview a shower.
  :Stardust battle       Start a fresh chase alongside current objects.
  :Stardust moon         Preview a moon passing through its phases.
  :Stardust planet       Preview a planet with a spinning ring.
  :Stardust orbit        Preview a planet with a circling moon.
  :Stardust pulsar       Preview a flashing star.
  :Stardust nebula       Preview a shimmering cloud.
  :Stardust supernova    Preview an expanding burst.
  :Stardust comet        Preview a comet.
  :Stardust satellite    Preview a satellite with a blinking beacon.
  :Stardust ufo          Preview a bobbing saucer.
  :Stardust ship         Preview an ordinary ship flyby.
  :Stardust status       Show activity and counts.
  :checkhealth stardust  Check rendering requirements.

The Lua API exposes setup(opts), start(), stop(), toggle(), meteor(),
shower(), battle(), object(kind), and status(). Previews respect category
switches, returning whether the effect could start. Object and battle
previews add to whatever is on screen; meteor and shower previews wait for the
current one to finish. Small views can prevent previews. object() without a
kind picks from objects.

PLACEMENT                                                 *stardust-placement*

The sky runs in every mode and buffer type, including startup dashboards.
Floating windows are skipped unless floating_windows is true. Cursor movement
does not clear it. Text and virtual text hide particles in occupied cells
without deleting them. Positions follow the visible viewport, including
wrapped lines, Unicode, tabs, and folds.

Below-file virtual lines are shared by matching views of a buffer. Views with
different geometry keep separate skies on buffer lines. Scrolling and edits
clear stale decorations. Files and terminal scrollback are never changed.
Highlights preserve the colorscheme background and terminal transparency.
Foreground brightness adapts to Normal's background for light/dark contrast.
For transparent themes, set background=light or background=dark to match the
terminal. Colors refresh on colorscheme and background changes.

vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help:norl:
